# How to Run a C Program
Now let's move on to the real reason why we studied all the previous things, let's create a simple C program and then execute it in the terminal. 

You know how to:
* Create a file
* View it's contents
* Edit it
* Create a new Directory
* Move from one directry to another
* See the contents of the Directory

We'll use all these concepts now.

## Writing C Program
First of all, I'll make a separate directory for all my codes under the `home` directory. 
```
    $ mkdir Workspace
    $ cd Workspace
    $ touch hello.c
    $ nano hello.c
```
I created a file named `hello.c` in the `Workspace` directory. You can edit it using whichever program you like. I like to use "Sublime Text".

Now this is a simple Hello World C program. Write it in the file and then save it.
```C
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
    printf("Hello World!");
    return 0;
}
```

## Compilation
To run the program, you first have to compile it. We'll use `gcc` to compile the program.
```
    $ gcc hello.c
```
Provide the full path of the program you want to compile, as an argument, to the `gcc`. In this case, it was in the `cwd`.  
After this command, if there are no errors, `gcc` will store an executable program in the `cwd` named `a.out`. This is the default name that `gcc` will use if you didn't provide the name yourself.

To specify the name of the output executable program, you can execute it like this:
```
    $ gcc -o hello hello.c
```
It's exactly the same as above with one exception. We specified a flag `-o` and after that, we gave the name that we want to give to the output file, in this case, "hello". If you use the `ls` command in the `cwd`, it will list the output program generated by the `gcc` compiler.

## Execution
To run our hello world program stored in the `cwd` by the name `a.out`, execute the following command:
```
    $ ./a.out
```
It will print `Hello World!` to the terminal.  

That's it. Now, you know how to create a C program from scratch, how to compile it and how to save it.