# Terminal

Terminal is a command-line-interface (CLI) where you write commands which are then executed by the operating system. It is equivalent to the Command Prompt (cmd.exe) in Windows but in the Linux world, unlike Windows, it is a first-level citizen, meaning that most of the time we use terminal to perform tasks instead of GUI (clicking and dragging). This is very fast as compared to GUI and  gives the user more control over what he can do. It has a steep learning curve for those who are accustomed to the GUI way of doing things, but when you do master it, it's a really valuable skill to have in your arsenal, which makes you more productive and also it looks really cool because all the hardcore programmers and hackers use it in the movies.

Each new Linux Distribution has it's own set of shortcut-keys and its own naming conventions. So, instead of being generic, we'll focus on just one Distro i-e Ubuntu (running Unity).  
One way of opening the Terminal in Ubuntu is to go in the Application Menu (equivalent to the Start menu in Windows) either by pressing the `start` button (the one with the Windows logo on it) on the keyboard or by clicking the first item on the Unity sidebar. After that, just enter "Terminal" and it will show in the list below. Now you can open it by just clicking on the icon and you're good to go.  
The other method, which I always use and is way more easy than the previous one, is to just enter the "shortcut-key" that is `Ctrl + Alt + t` and it will open the terminal right away. Remember this shortcut as it will save you a lot of time in the long run.
